CSC 360 Assignment #3 Report: Little Log File System
Katherine Jacobs V00783178

For my assignment, I ended up implementing a Unix based file system rather than log based. This was something
that I asked Yvonne about and she said it was okay. There are a few reasons that I chose to implement it this way. 
First of all I wanted to make sure that I had something complete I could hand in by the due date. I tried for a while to wrap my head around a log based implementation and I was having a lot of trouble getting started and understanding what it would look like, wheras I had a much better understanding of a Unix system layout. Another reason I chose Unix based over log based was that I felt that the tradeoff of seek time is smaller in solid state 
memory than in hard disks, which most personal computers use. 

For llFS I did not use any indirect blocks and instead used all direct blocks. I also chose my inodes to be a full block in size. This meant each inode had 252 references to direct blocks,and my maximum file size was ~129kB. While this may not be an effective use of space the tradeoff is that my file system is easier to maintain over time. One of the laws of software evolution:
as an E-type system evolves, it's complexity increases over time unless work is done to maintain or reduce it. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lehman%27s_laws_of_software_evolution)

The following commands that I have implemented are:
- addfile 'path' 'filename'
- mkdir 'path'
- read 'path'
-rm 'path'

The way my filesystem is implemented I am actually able to create multiple directories at the same time. For instance if I type "mkdir /Documents/CSC360/Assignments" My code will check for Documents in the root directory, if it doesn't exist will create it and add it to the root directory, then check the direcotry Documents for CSC360, so on. My design implementation also allows the command 'rm' delete either a file or directory, so long that the directory is empty. 


I would also like to mention that for this assignment I spent some time speaking with my fiance on a high level about the assignment in terms of design choices. His name is Matthew Fortier, V#00701675. I mention this because he has previously taken the course, and my design choices may be similar to his. I spent a fair amount of time talking to him about my design because of the school closing down, and I find it really helpful to discuss assignments outloud and draw things out. However I want to make it extremely clear I have not seen his code for this assignment, the only code I directly received some help with was my Makefile when I was first getting the assignment started. 
